[Music]
okay today's a big day for gaming
laptops we have new cpus from intel
new cpus from amd and of course new
gpus from nvidia their new rtx 30 series
for laptops now
this type of upgrade scenario doesn't
happen very often normally you have
like a cpu upgrade and then half a year
later you get a gpu upgrade and it just
flip-flops between the two this is like
the perfect alignment where they
all refreshed at once so if you get
something new this year you're going to
get something that lasts
a little bit longer than normal in front
of me is a stack of laptops these are
the premium gaming laptops from asus and
here's the thing before today like
there's pre-briefings right for
journalists
you kind of hear about what companies
going to bring out and then we kind of
deliver the news to you
every company is coming with some cool
stuff right now
but asus is doing something a little bit
different they did a
full refresh of their entire lineup and
it's amd across the board so
i wanted to get these things in to show
to you guys because this
is something special so at the top is
the stuff that i'm personally most
interested in but i think at the bottom
there's gonna be stuff that i know a lot
of you guys are gonna be interested in
just because of
the price point so at the top we have
the new asus
g15 so last year they had the g14 very
popular device
uh it was like one of the first good amd
based gaming laptops right it kind of
changed the way that we perceived what
amd could deliver
in a laptop this is the 15 inch version
g15
and it comes in two colors obviously the
white which i'm partial to
as well as a gray now this year it's
been redesigned
properly so it has the same kind of
design language and styling as the
popular g14 from last year so it has
that
magnesium alloy body as well as the
perforated
top panel so you can kind of see the
little dots on the back of it
this one does not have the anime matrix
like the thing you can
light up the little dots in the back
that's still only on the 14
but the internals are where it gets
special so this
is running the new amd 5900h
eight cores 16 threads and this device
can be equipped with up to an rtx
3080. now they will not allow me to
benchmark it
they want the drivers to be finalized
before i showcase these numbers to you
but having seen this thing and having
just played with it a little bit i don't
think they really needed me to wait
i feel like if i just show this you guys
you guys would be impressed but
we'll wait uh okay and that's just the
case for all these these are all
engineering samples
so i'm held back by i guess uh
review embargoes until you guys can see
the actual data
so battery in here 90 watt hours it also
has capable
or capability for 100 watt usbc charging
if you have access to it but it still
uses a barrel plug that's what comes
out of the box but this is a very
very capable system it's not like the
lightest and thinnest thing out there
but
i've always liked like i like the g14
because of the styling not just because
of the color i think a lot of people
that watch my videos are like oh you
just like it because it's white
no it's because when you have a
magnesium alloy case
and you have like those plastic
components as well but it just feels
super tanky i don't feel like there's
any fragility or
kind of delicate feeling to this i it's
just
that's why i like these devices so much
okay the g14 has also been updated this
has retained the uh the shape and
styling of the
one last year so it's just an updated
version of it
but there's a couple things that they've
added relatively minor
so there's a kind of prismatic or
iridescent
glow to some of the metal accents but
the big upgrades are on the inside so
once again
amd 5900 or 5800h cpus
and the gpu can be upgraded to i believe
in rtx 3060.
now both of these devices the g14 and
the 15
have upgraded screens so you get a
1080p 144 hertz panel i kind of like the
baseline
or if you want to be fancy 1440p
165hz panels with crazy good color
accuracy so the g15 can
supposedly hit hundred percent dci p3
which is
fantastic for a high refresh high
resolution gaming panel like that's
something i got to see so
i'll be honest if this is as good as
they claim
particularly with the screens i'm going
to be tempted to switch over to one of
these maybe even the 14 inch because
this kind of power and portability is
quite unique you don't get this
in anyone else right you just cannot get
this size
with this kind of gaming and video
editing performance
okay moving on we have the zephyrus duo
this is the double screen gaming laptop
and it's got that tilting screen so when
you open it up
the screen pops up just a little bit to
give you a better viewing angle
now this machine has also been updated
to amd cpus
as well as the best nvidia rtx gpu so
you have rtx 3080
but the interesting thing to me is that
this is a device that is like
the best of the best and even when it
came to a premium product like this
they've updated with amd which
unlike last year i don't know if you
guys watched my channel last year but
that was my biggest complaint
right every laptop company was still
using intel chips despite amd being the
clear
and kind of better choice for the
consumers it was so hard to find a
premium gaming laptop with amd
but everything it's all amd okay so
amd 5900h rtx 3080
it's gonna pump out crazy numbers this
was the first one i opened up when they
all came in i was like i gotta check
this thing out
it delivers it delivers uh it still has
the the trackpad on the right so if
you're left-handed
you're still screwed so the screen's got
a couple options there's a 4k
120 hertz panel as well as a 1080p 300
hertz panel so if you need the speed
you have it available on this machine
the cooling system so they've added a
second
air intake underneath this smaller
screen and it's running liquid metal so
the performance on this device this year
should be improved okay let's move on to
the next device so this is pretty cool
this is a 13-inch ultrabook looking
device called the flow
x13 and it looks pretty tame right 13
inch device
magnesium alloy it's like an ultrabook
and it opens up to
be a two in one it can be folded all the
way back to become a tablet but this
kind of product isn't new
i mean this doesn't even look like a
gaming product at all it is running
amd's new
5000 series chips which is cool you know
eight core
not a ton of wattage so it can't sustain
a ton of boost
but if you'll notice there's an
interesting port
over here and this changes what this
device can do
so this can be connected
to this okay so
let me explain this is an external gpu
and it's running an rtx 3080 inside
this very small package now let me
explain my thoughts on this device
there was a time like three years ago
when i was
personally interested in external gpus i
did a lot of videos on them and
there was this belief a personal belief
that this was going to be the future
external gpus would be the future
for laptop gaming and there were
a lot of attempts by multiple companies
to try to bring it to life but it never
became mainstream because of i guess two
or three reasons number one
it's expensive right you gotta get an
enclosure for it which costs money then
you gotta put your gpu in it
which obviously costs money but then the
performance that you get from your
external gpu
is heavily crippled by a thunderbolt 3
connection
it's like the the let's say you buy an
rtx 3080
you lose like 20 25 of that performance
just because of that connection
this delivers in a completely different
way so this
is a connection that delivers
double the bandwidth of thunderbolt 3.
and the box
is small it houses a laptop 3080 it's
got a full set of ports on the back and
an sd card reader
the port however is proprietary so
you're dependent on asus supporting this
thing
hopefully they continue with it but this
makes so much more sense to me than a
traditional external gpu right now it's
just
that idea was sound like a traditional
external gpu enclosure
but this is this is so much better and
if you have
this system if you're fortunate enough
to pick something like this up this
gives you an extremely
versatile setup right you got this crazy
ultrabook
you have this extremely powerful jeep
you can connect it up to
you can squeeze all of the juice out of
that gpu because
of this connection you don't lose any of
that performance
okay so that is the flow x13 now i can't
test this thing out because this seems
to be much more dependent on drivers
than all the other stuff so the
performance on this thing we'll have to
wait for
a future review but the idea is
it's on point i love it okay let's move
on so the next thing
is the asus tuff a15 now this is a
device
okay so i have if you've seen my kind of
like
uh laptop rating video i did at the end
of last year
i did not rate the a15 very well because
of one big issue
thermal issues and this is a very
popular laptop
this was in certain parts of the world
the best-selling gaming laptop last year
likely because of the price point it
comes in quite inexpensive
but i didn't love the thermals they
changed it
heavily now i cannot open this i've been
told not to open this
i want to so badly because i took a peek
and
like you can see it maybe i'll just open
it for you guys
asus i'm sorry but i just have to show
my audience the insides because i know
they're going to appreciate this
so we have a completely redesigned
thermal system we have
way more heat pipes we have a third
exhaust it now vents out the side as
well
and we have new fans they're made with a
better material they have a better
design
they have more fan blades the whole
thermal system is just significantly
better so
if you've been eyeing this system and
because it's got the new amd cpu as well
as the new
nvidia gpus this year would probably be
a great year to get it
assuming the pricing doesn't creep up
because
this stuff probably doesn't come for
free right all the materials even the
copper alone just to make the
extra heat pipes and stuff it all costs
but hopefully they've kept this thing as
a inexpensive entry-level device
uh the the logo has also changed so it's
no longer
that weird wing shaped logo it's more
like modern looking
design and you still have that tough on
the side but
yeah clean looking laptop which i think
a lot of people
are going to enjoy the next device is
another rg tough model this is brand new
for this year it's the dash
f15 so the traditional gaming laptop
right you have a
kind of performance gpu for playing
games and then you're often forced to
purchase
a high-end cpu to go along with it like
an eight core
or sometimes like a six core cpu but
those components are expensive
and they run hot and it's like they're
difficult to cool and that's what makes
gaming laptops
the challenge that they are and the
price tag that they are this one
removes that expensive cpu and put
something that's
a little bit more reasonably priced
these are equipped with
tiger lake intel cpus and they're four
core cpus but
they're still equipped with high-end rtx
30 gpus
so you get a system that should be a
little bit cheaper should be a little
bit easier to cool so it's thinner
and lighter and it still plays games
very well because the main thing is the
gpu for most games right
this is a model that i think more
companies should try to adopt it's like
this
uh kind of like mid-tier gaming laptop
that still retains like the thin
and light profile but it doesn't cost a
ton now
pricing for all this stuff is unknown at
this point but just from what i've been
told
this is not going to be like a super
expensive premium model but it still has
that like
kind of classic zephyrus look it's a
nice one and it comes in white
also the lighting on this thing is teal
so if you ask me this is clearly the
best laptop in the world
but for most people who don't edit
videos or you don't use applications
that can take
advantage of a lot of cpu cores this is
a really good option
especially for the kind of mid to lower
price point
gaming laptops okay let's close this off
with
these devices so these are the strix
laptops there's a 15-inch model as well
as a 17-inch model
and these tend to be a little bit
thicker asus doesn't focus too much on
keeping these guys like super thin
they have good performance but they tend
to be a little bit chunkier
they of course have the new amd cpus
also running liquid metal
as well as up to an rtx 3070 and the
displays on these go up to a 300hz 1080p
panel
or a 1440p panel and of course you have
the
underglow i know the strix laptops have
a relatively unique glow that some
people like and
if that's your jam these deliver that
now there's also
a scar edition so this is kind of like
the premium version
of the strix devices it's the same kind
of idea in terms of the shape
and design language but this one has a
removable
like back cap over here so you can swap
them out with different
magnetically connectable end caps and
they include a few different colors in
the box
and there's also on the inside a
optomechanical
keyboard this is the first time i've
seen it from asus i've used a few other
devices
with this type of keyboard and it's just
like a very
clicky tactile mechanical keyboard
it's not for everyone because it does
make your keyboard usage a little bit
louder
but it is available if you're interested
in it and there's also this pretty cool
semi-translucent component to the
keyboard deck i think it looks quite
nice
now the screen so this has also been
upgraded compared to the
strix like the regular strix this has a
360 hertz option so it's like a super
fast screen
and it can be upgraded to an rtx 3080 if
you need that
extra gpu performance on this kind of
laptop but that
is the lineup i feel like this year like
two things come to mind number one i
feel like
asus is the company that like they were
one of the first to do this whole
amd push right and i feel like this year
they're bringing that
chip to all of their devices i love that
it's like
it's it's amd time i like to see that i
like to see the competition not that i
want to
you know take a dump on intel but
they're giving us amd options even in
their top of the line premium
products now which is really nice to see
but the second thing that comes to mind
is
pricing so i obviously don't know any of
the price on all of these devices
but there's a part of me that's worried
that the pricing is going to go up like
last year amd devices were
not that they were super cheap but they
were well priced reasonably priced and
i'm
afraid because at this point amd knows
that they have something really good
and not just that they know they have
something really good they know that
we know that they have something really
good so
because we all want this stuff now
because amd's options are so good
i'm afraid that pricing will bump up a
little bit but
we will have to see okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it
subs if you loved it i'll see you guys
next time
[Music]